MeloPad is my end-of-degree project at the University of Málaga. I'm finishing my degree in sound and image engineering and I've created a device in order to apply many different learned concepts.

MeloPad is a notePAD for MELOdies. It's your best friend when you're out there, walking in the park, waiting for the bus, travelling around; whenever you're not able to create music but you have THAT precious idea in your head. MeloPad is portable as it includes a rechargeable battery and is light. It comes with different sheets simulating families of instruments (such as keyboards or stringed ones) to be placed on top of it, which the device recognizes and gives you the option to choose between instruments from that family. Additionally it is possible to choose the octaves, so that you can play higher or lower pitch sounds. This gives you the chance to recreate the melody you have in your head in the best way. Now, why MeloPad is your best friend? Well, because you can record the melodies and save them "for later". This makes MeloPad your perfect travel partner if you're like me: always having the best ideas when I cannot create them. When MeloPad does not recognize any sheet it gets into the consulting mode, where you have access to the recorded melodies in case you want to check them.

The prototype includes a screen, 3 buttons which help to navigate through the system and to choose the options shown on the screen, and a potentiometer to adjust the intensity of volume. The sheets simulating instruments are recognized using jumpers which finish the existing connection for a specific pin.
It is implemented with Bela "the platform for creating beautiful interaction" (https://bela.io/). In this case, I've used Bela Mini and the Trill Craft sensor from Bela.
The sounds of different instruments have been implemented using the STK library (https://ccrma.stanford.edu/software/stk/classstk_1_1Stk.html).

As you can see, MeloPad includes hardware, software, mechanics and a lot of patience and love for details. It's been fun, and tough sometimes, but I learnt so much.
